http://www.quora.com/What-do-you-do-to-optimize-EXTJS-performance#

What do you do to optimize EXTJS performance?Edit
There are many UI frameworks around javascript and a lot of rules-of-the-road methods to improve AJAX applications.  
For EXTJS, what do you do to improve the user experience?



 
Subrahmanyam Padala, Developer 
Votes by Sławomir Pucia, Victor CP, and Akhil Sai.
Use HTML and CSS instead of a full component. An Ext.Template or Ext.XTemplate might prove helpful.
Use a custom Ext.Component. There are various config settings for injecting HTML into a component: autoEl, html, tpl & data.
Use a DataView to render all of your data instead of a number of individual components?
Use an Ext.container.Container rather than an Ext.panel.Panel to reduce the overhead.
Do not use Ext.Loader.
All JS files should be concatenated and minified. Even on a fast internal network this can make a huge difference.
All CSS files should be concatenated and minified.
Consider building a custom version of ext-all.js. Are you really using the whole library?
If you use a lot of images then image sprites can help reduce the number of requests and also provide an implicit form of pre-caching for the other images in the sprite.
Use Performance Analyzer. Refer to Ext JS 4.1 Performance
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 4 Feb
Subrahmanyam Padala
1
 
Chris Weekly, Building and improving websites since 1998 
Read Steve Souders "High Performance Web Sites" and "Even Faster Web Sites", they're both goldmines. 

Generally, minify and compress, use DOM injection or some other late-loading mechanism for calling the main script, and watch out for anti-patterns in your scripts. 
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 31 Mar, 2010
Chris Weekly
1
 
Jeff Crilly Suggest Bio
Avoid using Ext.getCmp()... 
getCmp() looks up, by id, the component in a map.. while this might be convenient and necessary in some scenarios, the lookup can turn into a performance issue if abused... eg. in a loop with a large number of components.  Instead, consider using references to objects; as you would in any other object-oriented application. I also avoid looking up html elements by id.

Here's a good video on the ext.getcmp() topic with alternative suggestions:  
http://tdg-i.com/392/ext-js-scre...
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 13 Jan, 2011
Jeff Crilly
1
 
Tim Fiedler, software geek, laptop warrior addicted to extjs,php,cocoa,python,c and of course i love boxer dogs 
Sometimes I analyze my application and remove unused widgets from the library.

Always a good thing is to use xtypes, instead of creating a instance of a object.

Yui compression is another and the last way when i deliver the application
  
Suggestions Pending
1 Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 8 Jan, 2011
Tim Fiedler
1
 
Tony O'Hagan, 30 yrs IT, 60 languages. Developing 3 apps at the moment in Touch (one is outsourced). Starting a project in ExtJS soon that I used sever... (more) 
Caching and CDN will help:
http://delicious.com/tohagan/ext...
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 11 Nov, 2011
Tony O'Hagan
1
 
Daniel Orte Suggest Bio
How to minify all js in a ext js app? I'm using sencha 4.0.7
I'd want to know the best ways to do it?
Thanks!
  
1 Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 15 Nov
Daniel Orte
1
 
Hiren Dave, Senior ExtJs developer with experience of more than two years. 
Runtime loading of necessary scripts.
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 4 Jan, 2011
Hiren Dave
1
 
Ritesh Raghuvanshi, Knowledge hungry 
1) a minified version of library over CDN
2) minify all js and css for production version
3) remember, your code is gonna be running on client-side so try to reduce the load on client's machine
4) smartly choosing the components available from the library
  
Comment • Share • Thank • Report • 8 Jan
Ritesh Raghuvanshi
1
 
Jay Garcia Suggest Bio
There are lots of things you can do.  Many of them involve making the right decisions, such as do you use a Panel or Container?  

Also you have to consider things like grid renderers.  Are they optimized?  

Lots of performance issues have to do with inefficient programming, but more often, it has to do with inefficient use of the DOM.   To this day, the DOM is the slowest part of any RIA.